Dear both,

Let's start planning, and see if we can pull through a small PTetra worskhop in
January. Universities are good at teaching theory, but not always so at
teaching more practical skills. Sometimes researchers avoid certain central
research questions, or make rather wild assumptions, simply because they do not
have the tools to deal with non-ideal cases. I think this is a pity when it can
be dealt with easily through simulations. I believe that you do not have to be
a hard-core computational scientist to make some use of simulations in you
research, in much the same way you don't have to be a theorist to use
equations. What I hope to achieve with this workshop is to give people a skill
or tool they can actually use in research. I rather want them to have a working
knowledge from start to end with one tool, than to have vague familiarity with
many tools and knowing lots of theory (not that that is bad either).

I imagine three sessions, first with a presentation, and then with some hands-on:

Session 1: Description of case study and mesh generation with Gmsh
Session 2: Introduction to PIC and simulations with PTetra (presentationby Richard)
Session 3: Post-processing, visualization with ParaView, and comparison with Langmuir

I'd like to have some time between the sessions, so they have time to
troubleshoot, run simulations, and ask for help. How about the 18th, 20th and
25th of January at, maybe 15-17 CET? That also gives us some time to prepare
the presentations. Richard contemplated opening up for other institutes. That
is possible, but it's harder to provide hands-on assistance then, and let's not
go too big. If there's few enough, there will be time for some tailored
discussions. How about opening up to Richard's group, and perhaps some of
Sayan's acquaintances? Then the two of you can each assist your own
acquantiances, while I can help the UiO-participants.

Next, we need to agree on some case studies. I imagine one mesh is enough for
each participant, and perhaps they could be something like this, to keep it
simple:

- Sphere of r=0.5 Debye lengths (comparable to OML)
- Sphere of r=5 Debye lengths (comparable to Laframboise)
- Cylinder r=1 and l=5 Debye lengths (comparable to finite-length theory)
- Cylinder r=1 and l=15 Debye lengths (comparable to finite-length theory)
- Cylinder r=0.2 and l=0.2 Debye lengths (comparable to OML for sphere)
- Cylinder of r=5 and l=15 Debye lengths (not comparable to anything known)

For each mesh/participant, we could run a few different simulations at some
typical ionospheric parameters, possibly including a drift velocity.

- One floating potential simulation
- Three fixed potential simulations: 3V, 5V and 7V
- To make it more interesting the meshes can be segmented, and we can run one
  simulation with different voltages at different segments.
